docsrc/source/pages/installation.rst, before:

============
Installation
============

Using pip
---------

.. image:: https://pepy.tech/badge/pandas-profiling
  :alt: PyPi Total Downloads
  :target: https://pepy.tech/project/pandas-profiling

.. image:: https://pepy.tech/badge/pandas-profiling/month
  :alt: PyPi Monthly Downloads
  :target: https://pepy.tech/project/pandas-profiling/month

.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/pandas-profiling.svg
  :alt: PyPi Version
  :target: https://pypi.org/project/pandas-profiling/

You can install using the pip package manager by running

.. code-block:: console

    pip install -U pandas-profiling[notebook]
    jupyter nbextension enable --py widgetsnbextension

If you are in a notebook (locally, at LambdaLabs, on Google Colab or Kaggle), you can run:

.. code-block::

    import sys
    !{sys.executable} -m pip install -U pandas-profiling[notebook]
    !jupyter nbextension enable --py widgetsnbextension

You may have to restart the kernel or runtime.

Using conda
-----------

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/conda/dn/conda-forge/pandas-profiling.svg
  :alt: Conda Total Downloads
  :target: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/pandas-profiling

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/conda/vn/conda-forge/pandas-profiling.svg
  :alt: Conda Version
  :target: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/pandas-profiling

You can install using the conda package manager by running

.. code-block:: console

    conda env create -n pandas-profiling
    conda activate pandas-profiling
    conda install -c conda-forge pandas-profiling

This creates a new conda environment containing the module.

.. hint::

        Don't forget to specify the ``conda-forge`` channel. Omitting it won't result in an error, as an outdated package lives on the main channel. See `frequent issues <Support.rst#frequent-issues>`_

Jupyter notebook/lab
--------------------

For the Jupyter widgets extension to work, which is used for Progress Bars and the widget interface, you might need to activate the extensions. Installing with conda will enable the extension for you for Jupyter Notebooks (not lab).

For Jupyter notebooks:

.. code-block::

  jupyter nbextension enable --py widgetsnbextension

For Jupyter lab:

.. code-block::

  conda install -c conda-forge nodejs
  jupyter labextension install @jupyter-widgets/jupyterlab-manager


More information is available at the `ipywidgets documentation <https://ipywidgets.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user_install.html>`_.

From source
-----------

Download the source code by cloning the repository or by pressing `'Download ZIP' <https://github.com/ydataai/pandas-profiling/archive/master.zip>`_ on this page.
Install by navigating to the proper directory and running

.. code-block:: console

    python setup.py install

This can also be done in one line:

.. code-block:: console

    pip install https://github.com/ydataai/pandas-profiling/archive/master.zip

Commit message:

docs(installations): update install instructions for widgets version
Delegate most of the responsability of specifics handling to ipywidgets' documentation

docsrc/source/pages/installation.rst, after:

============
Installation
============

Using pip
---------

.. image:: https://pepy.tech/badge/pandas-profiling
  :alt: PyPi Total Downloads
  :target: https://pepy.tech/project/pandas-profiling

.. image:: https://pepy.tech/badge/pandas-profiling/month
  :alt: PyPi Monthly Downloads
  :target: https://pepy.tech/project/pandas-profiling/month

.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/pandas-profiling.svg
  :alt: PyPi Version
  :target: https://pypi.org/project/pandas-profiling/

You can install using the pip package manager by running

.. code-block:: console

    pip install -U pandas-profiling[notebook]
    jupyter nbextension enable --py widgetsnbextension

If you are in a notebook (locally, LambdaLabs, Google Colab or Kaggle), you can run:

.. code-block::

    import sys
    !{sys.executable} -m pip install -U pandas-profiling[notebook]
    !jupyter nbextension enable --py widgetsnbextension

You may have to restart the kernel or runtime for the package to work.

Using conda
-----------

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/conda/dn/conda-forge/pandas-profiling.svg
  :alt: Conda Total Downloads
  :target: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/pandas-profiling

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/conda/vn/conda-forge/pandas-profiling.svg
  :alt: Conda Version
  :target: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/pandas-profiling

A new conda environment containing the module can be created via: 

.. code-block:: console

    conda env create -n pandas-profiling
    conda activate pandas-profiling
    conda install -c conda-forge pandas-profiling

.. hint::

        Don't forget to specify the ``conda-forge`` channel. Omitting it won't result in an error, as an outdated package lives on the ``main`` channel. See `frequent issues <Support.rst#frequent-issues>`_ for details. 

Widgets in Jupyter Notebook/Lab
-------------------------------

For the Jupyter widgets extension to work (used for progress bars and the interactive widget-based report), you might need to activate the corresponding extensions. 
This can be done via pip: 

.. code-block::

  pip install ipywidgets

Or via conda: 

.. code-block::

  conda install -c conda-forge ipywidgets

In most cases, this will also automatically configure both Jupyter Notebook and Jupyter Lab 3.0. For older versions of both or in more complex
environment configurations, refer to `the official ipywidgets documentation <https://ipywidgets.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user_install.html>`_.

From source
-----------

Download the source code by cloning the repository or by pressing `'Download ZIP' <https://github.com/ydataai/pandas-profiling/archive/master.zip>`_ on this page.
Install it by navigating to the uncompressed directory and running:

.. code-block:: console

    python setup.py install

This can also be done via the following one-liner: 

.. code-block:: console

    pip install https://github.com/ydataai/pandas-profiling/archive/master.zip
